# BankTransaction
A system to create and edit a list of Bank Transaction objects written in C++

In the main method a loop is implemented which repeats until the user decides to terminate the program. While the loop is running the user can enter specific keys for relevant operations. Most of the methods are handled by the “TransactionManager” class which has a linked list of type “Transaction” as a private attribute. Through specific operations the “TransactionManager” manipulates the list by adding and removing different kind of transaction objects. Furthermore, the list can be sorted using a bubble sort algorithm and searched using either linear or binary search. Moreover, saving the list to a file or loading objects into the list from a file are supported. The delimiter for this operation is set to the space character on default but can be changed by using the corresponding method. The linked list has a link as header which is initialised with 0. When a link is added to the list then the object is attached at the beginning and the header becomes the last element. On the contrary, when an object is removed from the list then the last added element is removed. The searching and sorting works by using the time given in seconds from a transaction object with the type “time_t” from the “ctime” library thus making the process less complex.  To be able to save the list to a file by appending to the file object the mode is set at the beginning of the method and then written to utilising the “ofstream”. The “display” methods in the derived transaction object classes return a string with all the details. TransactionManager’s “displayAllTransactions” returns a string containing the details from all the objects in its list by iterating through the list and collecting each single “display’s” return value separated by a new line.

Loading all the transaction objects from a file is a bit more complex. The method in the TransactionManager first needs to find out which kind of transaction object is by checking the identifier. Applying the “ifstream” in combination with “getLine” leads to a simple approach on reading a line from the file object to a string object. After reading a line, the substring method is used up to the first occurrence of the desired delimiter and the required information is extracted into another string and then processed to the right type. Afterwards, the string is erased up to the point of the delimiter and the same process is used to get the next bit of information required depending on the transaction object type. For this reason, it is important to know the delimiter being used in the files.

The measurement of time for the algorithms equals the one presented in the lectures. It is written in the main method and returns the time for just the algorithms. The test plan is also included as a method in the main method and tests the basic functionalities. It returns the Boolean value whether the desired output equals the actual output. 

Some of the classes include a static constant map container which maps a key to a value e.g. a string to an integer.  Through this implementation all types can be made extendable by adding just the information without having to change the implementation. The map makes it easier to find the name of a date by its corresponding integer value.

“Date”: This class provides essential information regarding the date. It stores the date by taking the day, month, year, hour, minute and second as integer values. It only provides getter-methods and additionally has helper methods to handle time conversion. The “getTime” method returns the current objects time in format time_t, which is the current time in seconds starting from 1st Jan 1900. Comparing this integer value in the sorting algorithm is more advantageous. Furthermore, the “getMonthByName” helper method takes the abbreviated month name and returns the corresponding integer value e.g. “Jan” would return 1. Finally, the “displayTime” function returns the object’s date in a uniform string which is very important for persistence. The delimiter can be changed by using the “displayTimeWithDelimiter” since the space character is the standard delimiter.

“Transaction”: The basis class for all transactions is the abstract “Transaction” class. It contains all the relevant data which the different objects share like a date, name and the amount. This class only has “getter” methods and the attributes are set per constructor. The “display” and “displayWithDelimiter” methods are both pure virtual, thus making this class abstract. Only the derived classes with correct implementation are used as transaction objects and stored in a list.

“Cashpoint”, “DirectDebit” and “Transfer”: These classes derive from “Transaction” and have the necessary methods like “display” implemented. Each of the derived classes have additional attributes and getter-methods but share the same functionalities.

“Debit”, “Interest” and “CreditPoint”: These classes derive from “Transaction” as well and have additional attributes. To distinguish the specific states an enum type was used for the type-like attributes. For simpler handling of these attributes there are some further helper methods.

“Link”: The “Link” class provides a template self-referential class which stores exactly two attributes. It has a pointer to the next link and stores the data of a specific type. In this program the types stored are transaction objects. The link can be used in any other program. 
“LinkedList”: This class is a template used to create a linked list of any given class. It provides the basic functionalities of a linked list, which include adding new objects, removing the last one added and clearing the whole list. Also, the list stores an integer for the number of elements currently held. The LinkedList class can be used in any other program as well since there are no restrictions regarding “Transaction”. Besides, it is a friend class to the Link class so that it can access Link’s private attributes.

“TransactionManager”: Holds and manages a linked list of transaction objects by utilising dynamic memory allocation and providing necessary functionalities like persistence. Some methods simply call the methods of the linked list e.g. “getSize”. On the other hand, this class provides many key features such as sorting, searching and handling input/output. Loading the transaction objects from a specific file also requires distinguishing between the several types of transactions and therefor the method “getTransactionType” was implemented. The searching and sorting algorithms make use of the “getTime” method implemented in the Date class for simplicity. In addition, the TransactionManager is implemented as a friend class to the LinkedList and Link classes so that it can access their private attributes.

“Main”: The main method of the Main class holds the only TransactionManager instance in this program which keeps the information of all the objects. The Main class has many methods implemented for the user interface and for getting input from the users. These helper-methods are meant for avoiding “copy and paste” and to abide by the “DRY” principle which states that repeated code should not occur too often in a program.
